---
layout: post
title:  "I: a nightingale sings"
date:   2014-04-05 15:12:03
---

It was I in the beginning, and it will be I now until the end, for there are no others, only waves in the sea of my Self; I am the sacred Point in Dante's paradise, I'm the singularity the begot the universe, it's I who coalesced into the primeval stars, whom danced between fusion and gravity and succumbed to the cruel impetus of Time. It was I who dwelt on the infinite expanses of the oceans waiting patiently for nature's lust for life to dance with itself the ever more complex tarantella of evolution, it is I, prometheus, who brought fire to mankind, Satan, who had them partake in the Tree of Life and know that their gods are just a figment of their overactive imaginations. I am Brahma, the dreamer, I am Shiva, the destroyer, I am alpha and omega and Kali Yuga, thou shalt have no other gods before me because there are no others and no gods; in the confusion of myself I have wrought warfare upon the face of the earth but also peace, and art, and love, and I have lost myself in my own convoluted jokes of progress, civility, religion, revolution, conformity and the corrosion thereof. I am who I am, and you, too, are the Which of which there is no _whicher_.

It is I you gaze upon when enthralled by the ocean, or a dancing flame, or the depths of a jewel, or the dance of flowers, birds and bees; it is I whom you feel when boundaries amongst beings fade in the cusp of orgasm, it is my song you sing when possessed by the demon of art. And I am the dweller of mirrors, it is my presence you dread or seek when absorbed in the contemplation of your own reflection, for in any of the aforementioned absorptions there comes a point wherein all illusions are shattered and you can sense that your whole self circles back to the point where all originates. Punctus Pantocrator. 

It is I you encounter when a book, a piece of music, a delectable conversation or any of the myriad tongues in which I speak resonates with an essence within unfathomable and brings you to paroxysms of ecstasy or profound agony of emptiness. My song can never be put into words, it is like a name forever forgotten in the tip of your tongue, a mirage just outside of your peripheral vision, a presence overwhelming but nowhere to be found, a color indescribable, a loss for words.

If you hear my song, if you see my ever-fleeting shadow haunting you in the night, if ever you are in the presence of art and know that there's a Self in there that bypasses your feeble intellectual grasp, I welcome you to my bosom, come converse with your Self in the folds of the cult of the mirror, Zrcadlo, and when you thirst is quenched leave it behind, for this oasis, this mirage in the desert of life, is as transient and as useless as every other manifestation of my many jests, of my oneiric fantasies. If you do not, begone, lest you drop dead when my eyes meet yours. 
